Life is a quality that distinguishes matter that has biological 
processes, such as signaling and self-sustaining processes
Biology is the scientific study of life.
It is a natural science with a broad scope but has several unifying themes that tie it together as a single, coherent field.
For instance, all organisms are made up of cells that process hereditary information encoded in genes, which can be transmitted to future generations. 
Another major theme is evolution, which explains the unity and diversity of life.
Energy processing is also important to life as it allows organisms to move, grow, and reproduce.
Finally, all organisms are able to regulate their own internal environments.
Biologists are able to study life at multiple levels of organization, from the molecular biology of a cell to the anatomy and physiology of plants and animals, and evolution of populations.
Biologists have sought to study and classify the various forms of life, from prokaryotic organisms such as archaea and bacteria to eukaryotic organisms such as protists, fungi, plants, and animals. 
These various organisms contribute to the biodiversity of an ecosystem, where they play specialized roles in the cycling of nutrients and energy through their biophysical environment.
The earliest of roots of science, which included medicine, can be traced to ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia in around 3000 to 1200 BCE.
Their contributions later entered and shaped Greek natural philosophy of classical antiquity.
Ancient Greek philosophers such as Aristotle (384–322 BCE) contributed extensively to the development of biological knowledge.
His works such as History of Animals were especially important because they revealed his naturalist leanings, and later more empirical works that focused on biological causation and the diversity of life. 
Aristotle's successor at the Lyceum, Theophrastus, wrote a series of books on botany that survived as the most important contribution of antiquity to the plant sciences, even into the Middle Ages.
Scholars of the medieval Islamic world who wrote on biology included al-Jahiz (781–869), Al-Dīnawarī (828–896), who wrote on botany, and Rhazes (865–925) who wrote on anatomy and physiology. 
Medicine was especially well studied by Islamic scholars working in Greek philosopher traditions, while natural history drew heavily on Aristotelian thought, especially in upholding a fixed hierarchy of life.
Biology began to quickly develop and grow with Anton van Leeuwenhoek's dramatic improvement of the microscope.  
Investigations by Jan Swammerdam led to new interest in entomology and helped to develop the basic techniques of microscopic dissection and staining.